README.md, before:

# nca - Node Command Alias

| branch | build | coverage |
| --- | --- | --- |
| main | [![lint-and-test](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml) | [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gturi/nca/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/gturi/nca?branch=main) |
| develop | [![lint-and-test](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml) | [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gturi/nca/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/gturi/nca?branch=develop) |

<br/>

A command line utility to manage cross platform command aliases.


## Table of Contents

- [Install](#Install)
  - [Install bash autocomplete](#Install-bash-autocomplete)
- [Usage](#Usage)
- [Config API](#Config-API)
- [Examples](#Examples)
- [Contributing](#Contributing)
- [License](#License)


## Install

```
npm install -g node-command-alias
```

To install the latest version with security updates applied use `@dev` tag:

```
npm install -g node-command-alias@dev
```


### Install bash autocomplete

```
nca completion >> ~/.bashrc
```

#### Completion for git-bash

Completion also works on git-bash: there is a bug in yargs (the library used to implement the cli) which returns the wrong path to nca. To fix it just convert the windows style path to unix style.

```bash
# before
type_list=$(C:\Program Files\nodejs\node_modules\node-command-alias\bin\nca --get-yargs-completions "${args[@]}")

# after
type_list=$(/c/Program Files/nodejs/node_modules/node-command-alias/bin/nca --get-yargs-completions "${args[@]}")
```

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Usage

The heart of nca resides in `$HOME/.nca/config.yml`.

This file is where your cross platform aliases will be declared.

```yaml
includePaths:
  - /absolute/path/to/alternative-config.yml
  - ../relative/path/to/another-alternative-config.yml
  - /absolute/path/to/directory
  - ./relative/path/to/another-directory

aliases:
  - name: hello-bash
    description: prints hello
    command: echo hello
  - name: hello-js
    description: prints hello using javascript
    command: console.log(hello)
    commandType: Function
  - name: run-js
    description: executes a javascript file
    command: ./index.js
    commandType: Module
    # overrides yargs default completion
    completion:
      completionArray: [foo, bar]
```

If you do not like to store all the aliases into this file you can declare alternative yaml configurations under includePath variable. If you declare a directory as a path to include, all the yaml files defined inside it will be loaded.

You can also change the default main config file by defining `ncaMainConfigFilePath` environment variable. I.E.

```bash
export ncaMainConfigFilePath=/path/to/your/main/config.yml
```

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Config API

Configuration model is deployed to github pages. Please refer to the following [README](https://github.com/gturi/nca/blob/gh-pages/README.md).

Refer to [CommandHandlerInput](https://gturi.github.io/nca/main/docs/classes/command_handler_input.CommandHandlerInput.html) interface when using function and module aliases. It contains option, arguments and utility functions that can be used inside javascript functions/modules.

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Examples

Refer to this [README](./examples/README.md) to know how to define your scripts custom aliases.

Alternatively refer to this [git repository](https://github.com/gturi/nca-aliases) where I save my aliases.


[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Contributing

Contributions, suggestions, issues and feature requests are welcome!

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## License

This utility is distributed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)

Commit message:

add completion and debug information

README.md, after:

# nca - Node Command Alias

| branch | build | coverage |
| --- | --- | --- |
| main | [![lint-and-test](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml/badge.svg)](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml) | [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gturi/nca/badge.svg?branch=main)](https://coveralls.io/github/gturi/nca?branch=main) |
| develop | [![lint-and-test](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://github.com/gturi/nca/actions/workflows/lint-and-test.yml) | [![Coverage Status](https://coveralls.io/repos/github/gturi/nca/badge.svg?branch=develop)](https://coveralls.io/github/gturi/nca?branch=develop) |

<br/>

A command line utility to manage cross platform command aliases.


## Table of Contents

- [Install](#Install)
  - [Install bash autocomplete](#Install-bash-autocomplete)
- [Usage](#Usage)
- [Config API](#Config-API)
- [Examples](#Examples)
- [Contributing](#Contributing)
- [License](#License)


## Install

```
npm install -g node-command-alias
```

To install the latest version with security updates applied use `@dev` tag:

```
npm install -g node-command-alias@dev
```


### Install bash autocomplete

```
nca completion >> ~/.bashrc
```

#### Completion for git-bash

Completion also works on git-bash: there is a bug in yargs (the library used to implement the cli) which returns the wrong path to nca. To fix it just convert the windows style path to unix style.

```bash
# before
type_list=$(C:\Program Files\nodejs\node_modules\node-command-alias\bin\nca --get-yargs-completions "${args[@]}")

# after
type_list=$(/c/Program Files/nodejs/node_modules/node-command-alias/bin/nca --get-yargs-completions "${args[@]}")
```

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Usage

The heart of nca resides in `$HOME/.nca/config.yml`.

This file is where your cross platform aliases will be declared.

```yaml
includePaths:
  - /absolute/path/to/alternative-config.yml
  - ../relative/path/to/another-alternative-config.yml
  - /absolute/path/to/directory
  - ./relative/path/to/another-directory

aliases:
  - name: hello-bash
    description: prints hello
    command: echo hello
  - name: hello-js
    description: prints hello using javascript
    command: console.log(hello)
    commandType: Function
  - name: run-js
    description: executes a javascript file
    command: ./index.js
    commandType: Module
    # overrides yargs default completion
    completion:
      completionArray: [foo, bar]
```

If you do not like to store all the aliases into this file you can declare alternative yaml configurations under includePath variable. If you declare a directory as a path to include, all the yaml files defined inside it will be loaded.

You can also change the default main config file by defining `ncaMainConfigFilePath` environment variable. I.E.

```bash
export ncaMainConfigFilePath=/path/to/your/main/config.yml
```

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Config API

Yaml configuration model is deployed to github pages. Refer to:
- [Config](https://gturi.github.io/nca/main/docs/interfaces/api_config.Config.html) for the config file entrypoint, where you will define your cross platform node aliases.
- [CommandHandlerInput](https://gturi.github.io/nca/main/docs/classes/input_command_handler_input.CommandHandlerInput.html) when using function and module aliases. It contains option, arguments and utility functions that can be used inside javascript functions/modules.
- [CompletionInput](https://gturi.github.io/nca/main/docs/classes/input_completion_input.CompletionInput.html) when defining an alias custom completion. Similarly to `CommandHandlerInput`, it exposes current cli arguments and utility functions, allowing to create complex custom completion.


For more information please refer to the following [README](https://github.com/gturi/nca/blob/gh-pages/README.md).


[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Examples

Refer to this [README](./examples/README.md) to know how to define your scripts custom aliases. They should cover every situation from the entry level to the most advanced ones.

Alternatively refer to this [git repository](https://github.com/gturi/nca-aliases) where I save my aliases.


[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Troubleshooting

When dealing with custom completion it is possible that something does not work as expected.

You can enable debug mode by setting `ncaDebug` variable to `true`.

```bash
export ncaDebug=true
nca $command1 $command2 # tab press

# or you can manually ask completion with the following command
nca --get-yargs-completion $command1 $command2
```

Each time completion is invoked, cli values will be logged in the same directory where the main config file is stored (by default at  `$HOME/.config/out.log`).

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## Contributing

Contributions, suggestions, issues and feature requests are welcome!

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)


## License

This utility is distributed under the [MIT license](LICENSE).

[Back to top](#nca---Node-Command-Alias)
